help/AppCLI.Add-activity.en.md, before:


[Index](AppCLI.0Index.en.md) - Back: [Authenticate with service](AppCLI.Authenticate.en.md) - Next: [Tips and tricks](AppCLI.Tips-tricks.en.md)

---

Add an activity - Mynatime CLI app documentation
====================================

Refresh the activity categories
-----------------------------------

First, you have to pull the list of activity categories from the service.

```bash
mynatime activity category refresh
mynatime act cat refresh
```

> MynatimeCLI   
> Refreshing categories...  
Renewing session...  
ActCategory 51615 &lt;Out of office - planned&gt;   
ActCategory 51077 &lt;MyCompany - Internal&gt;  
ActCategory 51432 &lt;MyCompany - Demos&gt;  
ActCategory 51712 &lt;Project 123&gt;  
ActCategory 51402 &lt;Internal System Administration&gt;      
ActCategory 51556 &lt;Production System Administration&gt;  
ActCategory 51112 &lt;Project 789&gt;  
> ...

You can display categories at any time:

```bash
mynatime activity category
mynatime act cat
```

If a category is created by your manager, you will need to execute the refresh command again.

You can search a category:

```bash
mynatime activity category search project something
mynatime act cat search project something
```


Tracking activity
-----------------------------------

### Workflow

The best way to add activity is to track your work as you do it. You will use the `activity start/stop` command to specify the activity you start or stop. 

Later, a list of activities will be generated from these declarations. You will be able to push these to the service. 


### Example 1

The basic usage is:

- `08:51`: you arrive at work
    - `mynatime act start`
- `09:07`: later you start working on project1
    - `mynatime act start project1`
- `12:08`: and you stop
    - `mynatime act stop`
- `13:45`: you start working on something
    - `mynatime act start`
- `17:41`: when you stop, you indicate the project
    - `mynatime act stop project1`
- `17:41`: you know you will leave at 17:45
    - `mynatime act stop 1745`
- `17:41`: you can review the resulting activities
    - `mynatime status`
- `17:42`: and you can save them
    - `mynatime commit`

The status command will display the resulting activities:

```
0	Activity tracker
Activities:
- 2022-10-30 08:51 09:07
- 2022-10-30 09:07 12:08 Project1
- 2022-10-30 13:45 17:41 Project1
- 2022-10-30 17:41 17:45
```

The status command is important to use because it will recognize usual input errors and display them. 


### Tracking warnings and errors

When you use the status command, these warnings may be displayed:

- *"Nightly activity between 2022-10-29 and 2022-10-30. " (NightlyItem)*
    - Either you forgot to `stop` when leaving work, either you worked past midnight.
- *"Multiple days activity between 2022-10-27 and 2022-10-29. (ManyDaysItem)"*
    - A generated activity would span across many days. This is unusual. 

And these errors may be displayed:

- *"Stop event 2022-10-27-1000 is not following a start event." (StopNotFollowingStart)*
- *"Event 2022-10-27-1100 is of unknown type." (UnknownEventType)*
    - May occur if you manually change the data file.


### Example 2

Here a sample showing you what happens when you forget to specify some of your activity change events.

Say you arrive at work, and start working on project1.

```bash
# time is 0840
mynatime act start project1
```

You start working on project1 and it is time for the daily meeting.

```bash
# time is 0930
mynatime act start daily
```

The daily ended... You went to work on project2... It's noon, time for lunch...
You forgot to end the daily and set the current project. You can do it now, specifying the times. 

```bash
# time is 1202
mynatime act stop 0940       # this will stop the "daily"
mynatime act start 0940      # this will start something
mynatime act stop project2   # and stop if, associating it to project2
```

Each time you switch to a different task, you just have to "start" it.  When you stop, you "stop".

At the end of the day, you can review the activities:

```bash
mynatime act status         # display full details
mynatime status             # display summary of changes
```

And publish it:

```bash
mynatime commit
```


### Command usage

Here is all you can do with activity tracking:

```bash
mynatime act start [time] [category]              # starts an activity
mynatime act stop [time] [category]               # stops  an activity
mynatime act status                               # lists current activities
mynatime act clear                                # removes all events
mynatime act start/stop [date] [time] [category]  # you can specify a date
```


Adding past activity
-----------------------------------

### Command usage

Activity tracking uses a list of events to create a list of activities. You can skip tracking and create activities. 

```bash
mynatime  act add [date] <duration> [category]                         # adds an activity
mynatime  act add <date> <time-start> [date-end] <time-end> [category] # adds an activity
```


### Example 1

Now let's add an activity for the current day, using start time (08:30) and end time (11:50) for project "Internal".

```bash
mynatime act add 0830 1150 Internal
```

Now let's add an activity for yesterday (2022-09-15), using start time (08:30) and end time (11:50) for project "Internal".

```bash
mynatime act add 2022-09-15 0830 1150 Internal
```

You can also use duration (2.7 hours) instead of times (for "Project 123").

```bash
mynatime act add 2022-09-15 2.7 Project-123
```

You can also set a comment using the `-m` argument:

```bash
mynatime act add 2022-09-15 2.7 Project-123 -m "help John on the design"
```

All this is only saved on your computer. You can review what you created:

```bash
mynatime status
```

If it looks okay, you can publish to the service:

```bash
mynatime commit
```


---

[Index](AppCLI.0Index.en.md) - Back: [Authenticate with service](AppCLI.Authenticate.en.md) - Next: [Tips and tricks](AppCLI.Tips-tricks.en.md)

Commit message:

MynatimeCLI: activity tracking: accept comment (closes #11)

help/AppCLI.Add-activity.en.md, after:


[Index](AppCLI.0Index.en.md) - Back: [Authenticate with service](AppCLI.Authenticate.en.md) - Next: [Tips and tricks](AppCLI.Tips-tricks.en.md)

---

Add an activity - Mynatime CLI app documentation
====================================

Refresh the activity categories
-----------------------------------

First, you have to pull the list of activity categories from the service.

```bash
mynatime activity category refresh
mynatime act cat refresh
```

> MynatimeCLI   
> Refreshing categories...  
Renewing session...  
ActCategory 51615 &lt;Out of office - planned&gt;   
ActCategory 51077 &lt;MyCompany - Internal&gt;  
ActCategory 51432 &lt;MyCompany - Demos&gt;  
ActCategory 51712 &lt;Project 123&gt;  
ActCategory 51402 &lt;Internal System Administration&gt;      
ActCategory 51556 &lt;Production System Administration&gt;  
ActCategory 51112 &lt;Project 789&gt;  
> ...

You can display categories at any time:

```bash
mynatime activity category
mynatime act cat
```

If a category is created by your manager, you will need to execute the refresh command again.

You can search a category:

```bash
mynatime activity category search project something
mynatime act cat search project something
```


Tracking activity
-----------------------------------

### Workflow

The best way to add activity is to track your work as you do it. You will use the `activity start/stop` command to specify the activity you start or stop. 

Later, a list of activities will be generated from these declarations. You will be able to push these to the service. 


### Example 1

The basic usage is:

- `08:51`: you arrive at work
    - `mynatime act start`
- `09:07`: later you start working on project1
    - `mynatime act start project1`
- `12:08`: and you stop
    - `mynatime act stop`
- `13:45`: you start working on something
    - `mynatime act start`
- `17:41`: when you stop, you indicate the project
    - `mynatime act stop project1`
- `17:41`: you know you will leave at 17:45
    - `mynatime act stop 1745`
- `17:41`: you can review the resulting activities
    - `mynatime status`
- `17:42`: and you can save them
    - `mynatime commit`

The status command will display the resulting activities:

```
0	Activity tracker
Activities:
- 2022-10-30 08:51 09:07
- 2022-10-30 09:07 12:08 Project1
- 2022-10-30 13:45 17:41 Project1
- 2022-10-30 17:41 17:45
```

The status command is important to use because it will recognize usual input errors and display them. 


### Tracking warnings and errors

When you use the status command, these warnings may be displayed:

- *"Nightly activity between 2022-10-29 and 2022-10-30. " (NightlyItem)*
    - Either you forgot to `stop` when leaving work, either you worked past midnight.
- *"Multiple days activity between 2022-10-27 and 2022-10-29. (ManyDaysItem)"*
    - A generated activity would span across many days. This is unusual. 

And these errors may be displayed:

- *"Stop event 2022-10-27-1000 is not following a start event." (StopNotFollowingStart)*
- *"Event 2022-10-27-1100 is of unknown type." (UnknownEventType)*
    - May occur if you manually change the data file.


### Example 2

Here a sample showing you what happens when you forget to specify some of your activity change events.

Say you arrive at work, and start working on project1.

```bash
# time is 0840
mynatime act start project1
```

You start working on project1 and it is time for the daily meeting.

```bash
# time is 0930
mynatime act start daily
```

The daily ended... You went to work on project2... It's noon, time for lunch...
You forgot to end the daily and set the current project. You can do it now, specifying the times. 

```bash
# time is 1202
mynatime act stop 0940       # this will stop the "daily"
mynatime act start 0940      # this will start something
mynatime act stop project2   # and stop if, associating it to project2
```

Each time you switch to a different task, you just have to "start" it.  When you stop, you "stop".

At the end of the day, you can review the activities:

```bash
mynatime act status         # display full details
mynatime status             # display summary of changes
```

And publish it:

```bash
mynatime commit
```


### Command usage

Here is all you can do with activity tracking:

```bash
mynatime act start [time] [category]              # starts an activity
mynatime act stop [time] [category]               # stops  an activity
mynatime act status                               # lists current activities
mynatime act clear                                # removes all events
mynatime act start/stop [date] [time] [category]  # you can specify a date
                        [--message|-m <message>]    # you can add a comment
```


Adding past activity
-----------------------------------

### Command usage

Activity tracking uses a list of events to create a list of activities. You can skip tracking and create activities. 

```bash
mynatime  act add [date] <duration> [category]                         # adds an activity
mynatime  act add <date> <time-start> [date-end] <time-end> [category] # adds an activity
                        [--message|-m <message>]                       # you can add a comment
```


### Example 1

Now let's add an activity for the current day, using start time (08:30) and end time (11:50) for project "Internal".

```bash
mynatime act add 0830 1150 Internal
```

Now let's add an activity for yesterday (2022-09-15), using start time (08:30) and end time (11:50) for project "Internal".

```bash
mynatime act add 2022-09-15 0830 1150 Internal
```

You can also use duration (2.7 hours) instead of times (for "Project 123").

```bash
mynatime act add 2022-09-15 2.7 Project-123
```

You can also set a comment using the `-m` argument:

```bash
mynatime act add 2022-09-15 2.7 Project-123 -m "help John on the design"
```

All this is only saved on your computer. You can review what you created:

```bash
mynatime status
```

If it looks okay, you can publish to the service:

```bash
mynatime commit
```


---

[Index](AppCLI.0Index.en.md) - Back: [Authenticate with service](AppCLI.Authenticate.en.md) - Next: [Tips and tricks](AppCLI.Tips-tricks.en.md)
